So what is graph.
Yeah I guess this is graph that I meant in this green mathematics graph is something that is made up
from Agis and notes mostly you can see this notation where node is represented by a circle and inside
that circle can be some ID for example one or a.
And then there are agist.
And these are just lines connecting exactly two nodes like this.
So for example this cannot happen.
You cannot connect freen nodes.
Why a one match.
And this also cannot happen.
You can just when from one note to nowhere.
Also etch can be oriented or honor oriented.
And what that means.
Well for example this is oriented at connecting notes say and B.
And since this Agis oriented you can get from May to be but also from B to say but on the other hand
when I have oriented graph it can look like this.
And notice that there is not just a line connecting a and b but there is a narrow.
So in this graph you can get from May to be bad you cannot get from B to AA.
So let's take a look at more interesting example.
This graph is oriented and it contains.
Note A B C D.
And the first thing you may notice is that there is no act leading to.
And that is all right.
There is nothing wrong with that.
Imagine that this graph represents a real world network and he is an island.
Another thing you may notice is that there are more Agis and think in C and that is also OK.
There can be more rotes ending in one city right.
So now I want you to pause the video and find the path from A to D.
So since there is not direct damage from A to D there is Zetsche from the 2A but we cannot use that
because it is graphics oriented.
So we have to go from A to C and then we have to go from C to D.
So the path from May to the looks like this.
Now if I change this graph to an oriented graph you can just use this at from A to Z.
So that is pretty much how graph works.
Now let's take a look at more mathematic definition.
Graph is defined as.
To sum.
First we have a set of nodes and then we have saddo vacuous we means Verd to cease.
But I like no more.
So I am using node bad where just the CNO is the same thing.
And this we sat cannot be empty.
So there has to be at least one note than this.
He means Agis and it is a subset of we.
SIMES we.
And that makes sense is basically a relation over we because two notes either are in relation.
In other words they are connected or they are not.
So they are not in relation.
And when the graph is Sun oriented It doesn't matter in what order the notes and Edge are.
If there is say and the it is the same as if there were BNA.
But when a graph is oriented the order matters so and B is different that then B anyway.
I think this is pretty clear.
Let's take a look at more real world application of graphs.
Imagine that this honor oriented graph represents a road network.
But this time we have numbers next to Agis and this value can represent for example the length or how
much time it took.
So for example if I want to get from A to B I can go there directly and get a result value of 10 or
I can go through the and get the result value of 6.
So then the problem is how to decide what path you should take.
And that is a topic for following lecture.
So yeah it does somethings up.
Graphs are made up from notes and edges atch is connect exactly two notes graph can be oriented or oriented
and also edges can have values and that is pretty much it for this lecture.
If you have any questions feel free to ask and I will see you next time.